Introduction
============
Please respect the following rules:
- Remain polite, courteous, respectful and constructive
throughout the evaluation process. The well-being of the community
depends on it.
- Identify with the person (or the group) evaluated the eventual
dysfunctions of the work. Take the time to discuss
and debate the problems you have identified.
- You must consider that there might be some difference in how your
peers might have understood the project's instructions and the
scope of its functionalities. Always keep an open mind and grade
him/her as honestly as possible. The pedagogy is valid only and
only if peer-evaluation is conducted seriously.


Guidelines
==========
- Only grade the work that is in the student or group's
GiT repository.
- Double-check that the GiT repository belongs to the student
or the group. Ensure that the work is for the relevant project
and also check that "git clone" is used in an empty folder.
- Check carefully that no malicious aliases was used to fool you
and make you evaluate something other than the content of the
official repository.
- To avoid any surprises, carefully check that both the evaluating
and the evaluated students have reviewed the possible scripts used
to facilitate the grading.
- If the evaluating student has not completed that particular
project yet, it is mandatory for this student to read the
entire subject prior to starting the defence.
- Use the flags available on this scale to signal an empty repository,
non-functioning program, a norm error, cheating etc. In these cases,
the grading is over and the final grade is 0 (or -42 in case of
cheating). However, with the exception of cheating, you are
encouraged to continue to discuss your work (even if you have not
finished it) in order to identify any issues that may have caused
this failure and avoid repeating the same mistake in the future.
- Remember that for the duration of the defence, no segfault,
no other unexpected, premature, uncontrolled or unexpected
termination of the program, else the final grade is 0. Use the
appropriate flag.
You should never have to edit any file except the configuration file if it exists.
If you want to edit a file, take the time to explicit the reasons with the
evaluated student and make sure both of you are okay with this.
- You must also verify the absence of memory leaks. Any memory allocated on the heap must
be properly freed before the end of execution.
You are allowed to use any of the different tools available on the computer, such as
leaks, valgrind, or e_fence. In case of memory leaks, tick the appropriate flag.


Mandatory part
==============
Executable name
---------------
Check that the project compiles well (without re-link) when you excute the `make` command and that the executable
name is `miniRT`.

Configuration file
------------------
Check that you can configure camera(s), light(s), the window's size,
the ambient light ratio and simple objects in the
configuration file in accordance with the format described
in the subject.
Also check that the program returns an error and exits properly when
the configuration file is misconfigured or if the filename doesn't end
with the `.rt` extension.
If not, the defence is over and the final grade will be 0.

Technical elements of the display
---------------------------------
In this section we'll evaluate Technical elements of the display.
Run the program and execute the following 6 tests.
If at least one fails, no points will be awarded for this
section. Move to the next one.
- With only one parameter a window must open when
launching the program and stay open
during the program's whole execution.
- Hide either part of the window or the whole window with another window
or the screen's borders, minimize the window and maximize it back.
In every case, the window's content must remain consistant.
- When you change the window resolution in the configuration file,
the window's content must remain consistant.
- If the resolution set in the configuration file
is bigger than the display resolution
the window resolution has to be limited to the display resolution.
- With the option `--save` as the 2nd parameter, check that the program doesn't
open a window but only generate a `.bmp` image of
the render with the expected size.
- Pressing `ESC` or clicking the red cross of the window
exits the program properly.

The 5 Basic Shapes
------------------
In this section we'll evaluate the 5 basic shapes. Run the program
and execute the following 5 tests. If at least one fails, no points
will be awarded for this section. Move to the next one.
- Place a sphere at the coordinates {0, 0, 0}. With the
camera facing the sphere, display the rendered image. The
sphere should be visible and displayed without glitching.
- Place a plane with a 'z' value of null. With the camera facing the plane,
display the rendered image. The plane should be visible and
displayed without glitching.
- Place a square's center at the coordinates {0, 0, 0}
with a side size of 10 and a blue {0,0,255} color
extending along the y axis. With the camera facing the square,
display the rendered image. The square should be visible and
displayed without glitching.
- Place a cylinder extending along the y axis. With the camera facing
the cylinder, display the rendered image. The cylinder
should be visible and displayed without glitching.
- Place a triangle with the following coordinates
point1 {0,20,0}
point2 {0,0,0}
point3 {0,10,20}
with a color set to {255, 255, 0}. Display the image rendered.
The triangle should be visible and displayed without glitching.

Translations and rotations
--------------------------
In this section we'll evaluate that rotation and translation
transformations can be applied on the scene's objects. Run the
program and execute the following 2 tests. If at least one
fails, no points will be awarded for this section. Move to
the next one.
- Place two spheres at the coordinates {0, 0, 0},
the camera facing those spheres. Then put a translation
on one of the two spheres oriented in a direction parallel
to the camera's, of a greater distance than the sphere's
diameter and display the rendered image. Both spheres should
be visible and displayed without glitching.
- Place a cylinder extending along the y axis, the camera facing
the cylinder. Then put a 90° rotation (PI/2 radian) along
the z axis and display the rendered image. The cylinder
should be visible and displayed without glitching.

Multi-objects
-------------
In this section we'll evaluate that it's possible to put
several object in one scene. Run the program and execute
the following 2 tests. If at least one fails, no points
will be awarded for this section. Move to the next one.
- Place several intersecting objects on the scene, such as
for example a sphere and a cylinder, and display the rendered
image. Both objects should be visible and displayed
without glitching. (especially where both object intersect)
- Execute the same test, but ensure it's possible to
place the same object several times, for example two
cylinders, two spheres and a plane.

Camera's position and direction
-------------------------------
In this section we'll evaluate that the camera conditions of the
subject are respected. Run the program and execute the following 5 tests.
If at least one fails, no points will be awarded for this section. Move to
the next one.
- Generate a random scene and place the camera extending
along the x axis pointed towards the coordinates
{0, 0, 0} and display the rendered image. The scene
must be visible and displayed without glitching.
- Generate a random scene and place the camera extending
along the y axis pointed towards the coordinates {0, 0, 0}
and display the rendered image. The scene
must be visible and displayed without glitching.
- Generate a random scene and place the camera extending
along the z axis pointed towards the coordinates {0, 0, 0}
and display the rendered image. The scene
must be visible and displayed without glitching.
- Generate a random scene and place the camera at a random
location which isn't on any axis or a diagonal, pointed
towards the coordinates {0, 0, 0} and display
the rendered image. The scene must be visible and
displayed without glitching.
- Place three cameras in the configuration file and ask the student
to show you which keyboard keys they choose to switch between cameras.
You must be able to switch between camera without exiting the program.
The scene must be visible and displayed from the new point
of view without glitching.

Brightness 1/2
--------------
In this section we'll evaluate brightness on the scene's objects.
Run the program and execute the following 2 tests. If at least
one fails, no points will be awarded for this section. Move to
the next one.
- Place a sphere at the coordinates {0, 0, 0}, the camera
facing the sphere, and put a spot left or right of the camera
but positioned in such a way that the sphere will be lit sideways.
Display the rendered image. The sphere should be visible,
illuminated and displayed without glitching.
- Place a sphere at some coordinates resulting from a translation,
the camera facing the sphere, and place a spot left or right of
the camera but positioned in such a way that the sphere will be
lit sideways. Display the rendered image. The sphere should be
visible, properly illuminated and displayed without glitch.
Properly means that the halo of light should be computed
after translation not before.

Brightness 2/2
--------------
In this section we'll evaluate shadow management generated by
the scene's objects. Run the program and execute the following 2
tests. If at least one fails, no points will be awarded for
this section. Move to the next one.
- Place a vertical spot, a sphere and a plane. The spot lighting
the sphere's position to create a sphere shadow on the plane.
Put the camera aside so we can see the sphere, the plane and
the sphere's shadow on the plane. The shadow must be properly
displayed without glitching.
- Put a complex scene together with several objects like on
illustration V.6 page 10 of the subject. Shadows must be
properly displayed without glitching.

Multi-spots
-----------
In this section we'll evaluate that it's possible to have
several spots in the same scene. Run the program and execute
the following test. If it fails, no points will be awarded
for this section.
- Put together a scene with several objects including at
least a plane on which shadows will be projected as well
as 2 spots at the minimum. Check that brightness, shadows
and shine effect (if implemented) work properly.


Bonus
=====
We will look at your bonuses if and only if your mandatory part is excellent. This means that your must complete the
mandatory part, beginning to end, and your error management must be flawless, even in cases of twisted or bad
usage. So if the mandatory part didn't score all the point during this defence bonuses will be totally ignored.

Many bonuses?
-------------
Look at the subject bonus part and add one point for each bonus
implemented and fully functionnal.

And more?
---------
Same as before, but add one point when two more bonuses of
the list are well implemented and fully functionnal. Round it
up if necessary (9 bonus is 5/5).